# **Real Estate Tokenization Project**

### The goal of this project is to connect owners of real estate properties with a community of lenders, borrowers, and real estate micro-investors in an effort to make real estate investment accessible through a fractional ownership (FO) tokenized system. Ideally, the real estate investment properties will not be inhabited by the owner(s), but instead will serve as short- or long-term rentals, providing token owners with a passive income in addition to their short- or long-term investments in the real estate property. In addition to expanding investment opportunities and eliminating real estate middle-men, this system would allow for expanded democratization of real estate prices. Theoretically, the minted tokens could also serve as a fiat currency backed by the value of the property they represent. 
### We elected to pursue a FO tokenization because creating and entire asset (EA) ownership token would require turning a property deed into its own NFT, which is an undeveloped asset class. However, we do aim to store property deeds within an IPFS connected to the token. Tokens can be transferred, but the deed cannot, inhibiting development of an EA token.
### [Source](https://www.fool.com/investing/stock-market/market-sectors/financials/non-fungible-tokens/nft-real-estate/).
---
# **Review of Literature:**

### At this time, a review of literature determined that there are no identical projects, though some companies are making efforts to tokenize real estate and provide micro-finance investment opportunities:

## **DigiShares:**

### Though not yet fully functional, Digishares addresses some of the problems we are attempting to solve. Their platform allows real estate owners to tokenize their property and create a crowdfunding platform. The minted tokens are “compatible with exchanges” and use “audited smart contracts” and electronic signatures to make exchanges. They also claim to have shareholder meetings and votes, but refrain from expanding on the functional process. A future version of our application would try to incorporate this functionality as well. Where our idea differs from DigiShares is with an incorporated lending market, which allows users to acquire loans to purchase tokens, provided the borrower meets loan criteria. We also have a primary focus on tokenizing rental properties. Thus, our application creates two additional means of passive income for users: lenders make money by loaning Eth and borrowers make money by retaining a portion of the rent paid to their property. 
[For more on DigiShares:](https://digishares.io/real-estate-tokenization?utm_feeditemid=&utm_device=c&utm_term=how%20to%20tokenize%20property&utm_source=google&utm_medium=ppc&utm_campaign=USA+%2B+Canada+-+v3&hsa_cam=17322637350&hsa_grp=142284528212&hsa_mt=b&hsa_src=g&hsa_ad=599963647351&hsa_acc=3998698433&hsa_net=adwords&hsa_kw=how%20to%20tokenize%20property&hsa_tgt=kwd-1187718903723&hsa_ver=3&gad=1&gclid=Cj0KCQjwu-KiBhCsARIsAPztUF2g2h5j501tbDSomwqYZwEzQ1cokxyvhjV5rlsQ3jVTHpUoA2Z5UBYaAhkxEALw_wcB)

## **Yieldstreet:**

### While Yieldstreet does not present opportunities for tokenization of real estate, they do provide users with the opportunity for real estate micro-investments with an investment minimum of $5,000.00. Yieldstreet is a private real estate investment fund, but it does provide an opportunity for users to obtain partial ownership of a specific property. However, Yieldsreet serves as strictly an investment platform, and does not create alternative income streams or allow for easy transition between ownership of properties. As a more conventional real estate investment fund, they are also subject to conventional real estate fees for purchase of properties. Their site includes the useful insight that real estate ownership is an excellent hedge against inflation as “US property prices and income have historically outpaced inflation.”
[For more on Yieldstreet:](https://www.yieldstreet.com/real-estate-investing/?ad_id=652726043019&adset_id=145388436923&campaign_id=19643999464&campaign_type=search&g_acctid=323-576-2402&g_adgroupid=145388436923&g_adid=652726043019&g_adtype=search&g_campaign=S+-+NonBrand_Real+Estate_tCPA-Tier+1_EPB&g_campaignid=19643999464&g_keyword=realty%20investment&g_keywordid=kwd-308775751137&g_network=g&hdlt_campaign=S+-+NonBrand_Real+Estate_tCPA-Tier+1_EPB&hdlt_source=google&keyword=realty%20investment&matchtype=p&medium=cpc&placement=g&utm_campaign=NonBrand_Real%20Estate_Realty_Tier%201_PM&utm_content=responsivead&utm_medium=cpc&utm_source=Google_Search&utm_term=realty%20investment&gad=1&gclid=Cj0KCQjwu-KiBhCsARIsAPztUF16Ra0yrt51x4GW-9h2oZ6pL9mKx9prUyMxvFeaSKr1FFqX5FgYOzAaAoCMEALw_wcB)

